README.md, before:

# Test Generation Tools

`formal/promela/src`

This directory contains tools that use SPIN to do test generation from Promela models.

## Contributors

* Andrew Butterfield
* Frédéric Tuong
* Robert Jennings
* James Gooding Hunt

## License

This project is licensed under the
[BSD-2-Clause](https://spdx.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause.html) or
[CC-BY-SA-4.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/CC-BY-SA-4.0.html).


## Tool Setup

### Prerequisites

The Promela/SPIN tool is required. It can be obtained from [spinroot.com](https://spinroot.com). Follow the installation instructions there and ensure that the executable `spin` is on your `$PATH`.

### Tool Installation

From within `formal/promela/src` do:

```
make env
. env/bin/activate
make py
```

Alternatively, you can run `src.sh`.

You need to activate this virtual environment to use the toolset.

### Tool Configuration

The top-level program is `testbuilder.py`. 

It relies on a configuration file `testbuilder.yml` that defines various key names/paths related to your RTEMS installation. A template file `testbuilder-template.yml` is provided. This should be edited to reflect your setup, and than saved as `testbuilder.yml`.


To simplify matters, it helps to create a short alias for the full pathname to `testbuilder.py`. This should be defined in `.bashrc` or similar.

```
alias tb=path-to-formal/formal/promela/src/testbuilder.py
```

If all this is setup, then a quick test is simply to run the program without command line arguments, which will then issue a help statement:

```
:- tb
USAGE:
help - these instructions
all modelname - runs clean, spin, gentests, copy, compile and run
clean modelname - remove spin, test files
archive modelname - archives spin, test files
zero  - remove all tesfiles from RTEMS
spin modelname - generate spin files
gentests modelname - generate test files
copy modelname - copy test files and configuration to RTEMS
compile - compiles RTEMS tests
run - runs RTEMS tests
```

If there are obvious problems with `testbuilder.yml`, it will report an error.

Commit message:

update README.md in forma/promela/src to mention refine-config.yml #21

README.md, after:

# Test Generation Tools

`formal/promela/src`

This directory contains tools that use SPIN to do test generation from Promela models.

## Contributors

* Andrew Butterfield
* Frédéric Tuong
* Robert Jennings
* James Gooding Hunt

## License

This project is licensed under the
[BSD-2-Clause](https://spdx.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause.html) or
[CC-BY-SA-4.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/CC-BY-SA-4.0.html).


## Tool Setup

### Prerequisites

The Promela/SPIN tool is required. It can be obtained from [spinroot.com](https://spinroot.com). Follow the installation instructions there and ensure that the executable `spin` is on your `$PATH`.

### Tool Installation

From within `formal/promela/src` do:

```
make env
. env/bin/activate
make py
```

Alternatively, you can run `src.sh`.

You need to activate this virtual environment to use the toolset.

### Tool Configuration

The top-level program is `testbuilder.py`. 

It relies on a configuration file `testbuilder.yml` that defines various key names/paths related to your RTEMS installation. A template file `testbuilder-template.yml` is provided. This should be edited to reflect your setup, and then saved as `testbuilder.yml`.

Another configuration file `refine-config.yml` defines file names for files used during the test-generation process. A template file `refine-config-template.yml` is provided. This should be edited to reflect your setup, and then saved as `refine-config.yml`.

To simplify matters, it helps to create a short alias for the full pathname to `testbuilder.py`. This should be defined in `.bashrc` or similar.

```
alias tb=path-to-formal/formal/promela/src/testbuilder.py
```

If all this is setup, then a quick test is simply to run the program without command line arguments, which will then issue a help statement:

```
:- tb
USAGE:
help - these instructions
all modelname - runs clean, spin, gentests, copy, compile and run
clean modelname - remove spin, test files
archive modelname - archives spin, test files
zero  - remove all tesfiles from RTEMS
spin modelname - generate spin files
gentests modelname - generate test files
copy modelname - copy test files and configuration to RTEMS
compile - compiles RTEMS tests
run - runs RTEMS tests
```

If there are obvious problems with `testbuilder.yml`, it will report an error.
